# Predicting-Re-admission-of-a-Diabetic-patient-using-PySpark

## Abstract:
This project focuses on predicting whether a diabetic patient will be readmitted after undergoing   different doses of medications, and if yes within how many days. We are also trying to find people having similar characteristics in-terms of insulin level and many more.

## Project Summary:
More than 100 million people in the United States have diabetes or prediabetes [Source Link]. We are working in the health-care space to support our hypothesis that different medication doses impact individuals having Diabetes in a different fashion. People have limited knowledge regarding Diabetic treatments and possibilities of readmission. It’s not necessary that each medication impacts all individuals in the same way and the chances of readmission provide support whether the dose of medication for that individual was appropriate or not. It cannot be assured that diabetic conditions won’t disappear once patients are provided with medication and their current diabetic conditions start to subside. This uncertainty may even worsen the patient’s conditions in the long run. There are many factors affecting the condition of a diabetic patient, such as Age, Ethnicity, number of days admitted in the hospital, number and different kind of medications, admission type(Emergency, Elective), International classification of diseases (ICD) [More information here] etc. Hence, the main objective of this project is to identify the factors contributing to the readmission of diabetic patients. The main accomplishment would be the development of a predictive model which will predict the chances of rehospitalization of a diabetic patient based on above mentioned factors. The prediction of recurrence of diabetes can help the patients to take active measures in order to control their diabetic conditions. This will cater to the improvement of health conditions around the world.
Goal: To obtain diabetic patient records from different US hospitals


